Two Israelite men sneak into the city of Jericho.
The men are spies.
They take refuge in a place where they feel no one will notice them.
The home of a prostitute, Rahab.
And little does Rahab know how the visit of these two men will affect her life.
But someone recognizes the spies, and they notify the king.
The king sends men to take the spies into custody.
As the king's men bang on the door, Rahab is confronted with a life or death
decision, a decision that will affect her livelihood and the lives of everyone in her
family.
Will she take a stand for Jehovah's people?
Or will she side with the king of Jericho?
As you watch the following video, imagine the challenges that Rahab faced, and notice what
helped her to make a life-saving decision.
Jericho was doomed.
People were scared.
When the Israelite men showed up at my door, there was barely time to think.
But I knew what was at stake.
Even as a young girl, I had heard all the stories.
Jehovah wasn't like the other gods.
He had dried up the waters of the Red Sea, and given his people victory over the Amorites.
If I helped these men, I knew Jehovah would help me.
For the first time in my life, I was standing with Jehovah's people on Jehovah's side.
And my faith was being rewarded.
The spies were probably the first Israelites that Rahab had ever met.
Yet she was convinced that if she helped the two men, that Jehovah would help her.
Why did she feel that way?
Please open your vibals to Hebrews chapter 11, and we're going to read verse 31.
And here we find the answer to that question in a single word.
Hebrews 11.31 says,
By faith, Rahab the prostitute did not perish with those who acted disobediently because
she received the spies in a peaceable way.
Yes, Rahab took a decisive stand based on her faith in what she had heard about Jehovah.
How he had delivered his people at the Red Sea, how he had given them victories over nearby kings.
The account in Joshua chapter 2 describes the significant sequence of events.
Rahab had already hidden the spies on her roof before the kingsmen arrived.
And after sending the kingsmen away, she went back up to the roof to talk to the spies.
There she explained to them the reasons for her faith.
And she expressed confidence that Jehovah is the true God and that Jehovah would give his people victory over Jericho.
Only then did she ask the spies for protection for herself and her family.
So Rahab's faith was not based on the promise of a reward.
Rather, her faith was based on her firm conviction that Jehovah is the Almighty God.
Rahab's faith gave her courage to hide and protect the spies,
and then her faith moved her to obey the spies on usual instructions.
In the following dramatization, notice how a young Bible student
shows faith like that of Rahab.
There was no doubt about it.
I had found the truth.
So why did I feel so anxious?
I knew how mom felt about the holidays.
I also learned how Jehovah felt.
They displeased him.
Some changes in my life were easy to make,
but I really needed Jehovah's help for what I had to do next.
I love my mom so much.
When I explained that I wouldn't celebrate the holidays anymore,
I could tell that she was hurt, but I knew I was doing the right thing,
and prayed that Jehovah would help her understand.
I admit I was surprised when she said she wanted to learn more.
What a blessing.
Thanks to Jehovah, I have found the truth, and now maybe my family would find it too.
Like Rahab, this Bible student had already identified the true God.
She was convinced that she had found the truth,
but now she needed to act on that faith,
and she was blessed when she took a stand on Jehovah's side.
Each of us must ask ourselves, am I standing firmly on Jehovah's side?
Perhaps you feel that you don't have enough knowledge to take a stand?
If so, imitate Rahab and do not hesitate.
What little knowledge Rahab had about Jehovah was enough to give her faith
that moved her to take prompt, obedient action.
But Rahab had to do more than protect the spies and follow their instructions.
James 2, verse 25, states that Rahab was declared righteous by her works.
Remember, she was a prostitute, a work that is not in harmony with Jehovah's righteous standards.
The Canaanites didn't view prostitution as something bad.
However, in order to be accepted as one of Jehovah's clean worshipers,
Rahab had to abandon her immoral way of life.
Likewise today, all who want to please Jehovah must abandon any lifestyles or conduct that
displeases him. This includes sexual immorality, idolatry, theft, drunkenness, and customs that are
not in harmony with the Scriptures. Rahab and her family certainly were grateful that her faithful
actions led to their salvation. But that wasn't all that Jehovah did to bless this woman of strong
faith. She also had the privilege of becoming an ancestor of the Messiah, Jesus Christ.
Therefore, may all of us imitate the faith of Rahab and may that faith move us to action,
to abandon immoral conduct and false religious customs, to take our stand for Jehovah and his
pure worship, to continue to grow in knowledge of God and to draw closer to Him as our loving Heavenly
Father. If we show faith like that of Rahab, we will enjoy Jehovah's favor and blessing forever.
Brother Ken Flodin, a helper to the Teaching Committee, will now present the next talk of this
symposium, imitate women of strong faith, Hannah.